---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra Portfolio Project"
date:       2019-11-12 10:35:50 -0500
permalink:  sinatra_portfolio_project
---


Today I have completed my sinatra portfolio project. For my project, I created an application that keeps track of a collection of cocktail recipes uploaded by many users. A user can sign up for an account by providing a desired username, password, and email. Once users sign up, they are redirected to a profile page that displays a list of all of the cocktail recipes that were created by them and also a  menu of options of what to do. Once logged on, users can create cocktail recipes, view the collection of recipes within the applications's database,  edit their recipes, and also delete their recipes. Users cannot edit recipes that were created by other users. Creating this application for me was a great learning experience and also provided me with a glimpse of how much I have learned since strating the course. Actually building an MVC application and working with both the front and back end components was something that I was very eager to do before beginning this course. Building this appication also sparked my interest in learning alot more about HTML and CSS. I have realized that HTML and CSS are things that every developer should become very familiar with, and how mastering these concepts can eventually greatly improve the visual potential of all my future projects. One of my favorite concepts on this module that I was able to apply to this project was learning about sessions and the mechanisms dealing with password security and authentications. Learning about helper methods and the actual process about how users can be tracked when using a stateless protocol like http was something I also really enjoyed doing. Furthermore, being able to apply these concepts in my project made me feel more like an actual developer and has answered many questions that Ive always had about such concepts. There are other things that I want to add to my application in the future, such as  more CRUD methods on user models so that users could be able to update and delete information about ther user accounts. Additionally, I would like to add a comments model, view, and controller so that users can comment on each others recipes.  So far, this has been my favorite project on the course so far. Without a doubt, having had such a great learning experience while creating this project has me looking forward to moving onto Rails in the near future.
