---
layout: post
title:      "Asynchronous Javascript Requests and a Rails API"
date:       2020-04-08 18:09:38 -0400
permalink:  rails_with_javascript
---


For my rails with Javascript project, I decided to build an application similar to what I had built for my rails project. Rather than implementing Javascript to my existing rails application like I had originally planned to do, I challenged myself to create most of my application's functionality with Javascript. One of the things that I enjoyed learning the most from this module was creating Javascript methods that render html code and then interacting with it. This module provided me with a vast amount of knowledge concerning the application of Javascript in the front end of web applications. Prior to the start of this module, I was very curious to learn how Javascript methods can influence the appearance of an application and even more so as to how Javascript code could be tested in a browser console or how it is able to target specific html nodes. The requirements for this project consisted of having various fetch requests from the front end of the application to the backend that update the backend of the application. I fuflfilled these requirements by implementing various fetch requests to create and read cocktail recipes. Furthermore, my rails backend consists of a has-many relationship between a cocktail model and an ingredient model. Once users that are interacting with my application are viewing a particular cocktail, they are able to create and add ingredients to the cocktail. Again, my application uses fetch requests in the front-end javascript in order to create a particular ingredient and update the backend.  So far, a user is only able to create and read a cocktail recipe.  Also, a user is able to create and add ingredients to a particular recipe. As I write this blog post, I continue to work towards my goal of improving the functionality of my application and adding the ability for a user to edit and delete a cocktail. In addition, I'm working towards adding the ability to delete the ingredients of a cocktail once a user is viewing a particular cocktail's show page page.

