---
layout: post
title:      "Rails Portfolio Project"
date:       2020-02-04 17:58:13 +0000
permalink:  rails_portfolio_project
---


Today I finally completed my Rails Portfolio Project. For me, completing this project was both a great challenge and a great learning experience. Learning how to create applications using Ruby on Rails has been one of my favorite parts of the course so far. It has made me realize why rails is very popular among software developers and has given me a glimpse of some of its amazing magic-like capabilitites. For my project, I decided to create a cocktail recipe tracker application. I had previously done a cocktail recipe tracker with my Sinatra Project and wanted to use the same concept with Rails in order to compare my experiences with both frameworks. 

Like my Sinatra Application, a user can create an account or log in to the application if they already have an account. I used the devise gem to handle most of the user authentication. Using gems while developing applications was also one thing that I became very familiar with while working on this project.Once users sign in, they are redirected to a profile page where they have a variety of options to choose from. A user can see the number of cocktail recipes that they have uploaded, along with links to see all cocktails, all cocktail categories, all cocktail ingredients, and all of the recipes that they have uploaded. Additionally, a user can see the cocktail recipe of the day, the most talked about cocktail recipe, and the five newest cocktail recipes while at the profile page. If a user vivsts the index page of all of the cocktail recipes, they are able to search the recipes by their title and also by their user. Once a user clicks on a cocktail recipe, they are taken to the recipe show page which displays all of a recipe's details. A user can click on the recipe category or ingredients and be taken to that category or ingredient show page where they are able to see all of the cocktails associated with that category or ingredient. Also, while at a recipe show page, a user can be shown the next or previous recipe (by aplhabetical order) by clciking on buttons displayed on the recipe. Users can edit, update, and delete only the recipes that they created. A user can also see a cocktail's comments and comment on any recipe. 

I would say that one of the greater challenges that I encountered while creating this application was establishing associations between my models. Furhtermore, creating the recipe form that receives the user input for the model attributes was also a challenge. Part of the requirement for the project was to establish a join model with a user submittable attribute. For me this was the quantity of every ingredient in the recipe. Establishing this relationship and building the form for the recipe with these associations in mind were, in my opinion, the most challenging parts of this project. Once I had that done, I was able to focus more on how a user would interact with my application. I used several gems to create my application. Among these were paperclip, devise, and the github omniauth gem. I used the paperclip gem to provide users the ability to upload images into the application. I used the devise gem mostly to handle user authentication and I used the omniauth gem to let users sign in with their github information. Overall, working on and completing this project really gave a a sense of being a programmer. It has also made me realize how much I continue to learn as I advance along the course and makes me super eager to learn more and more about application development.


